Initial pass on workflows and agents (#362)
langchain-ai/docs: src/oss/langgraph/workflows-agents.mdx

---
title: Workflows and agents
---

> This guide reviews common workflow and agent patterns. Workflows have predetermined code paths and are designed to operate in a certain order. Agents are more dynamic and define their own processes and tool usage.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
This guide reviews common workflow and agent patterns.

- Workflows have predetermined code paths and are designed to operate in a certain order.
- Agents are dynamic and define their own processes and tool usage.
```

![Agent Workflow](/oss/images/agent_workflow.png)

> LangGraph offers several benefits when building agents and workflows, including persistence, streaming, and support for debugging as well as deployment.

Reviewer: link to conceptual guides for persistence / streaming / debugging / deployment?

## Setup

> You can use [any chat model](/oss/integrations/chat) that supports structured outputs and tool calling to build workflows and agents. To get started, install dependencies and then set your API keys like the Anthropic example below.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
To build a workflow or agent, you can use [any chat model](/oss/integrations/chat) that supports structured outputs and tool calling. The following example uses Anthropic:
```

:::python

> <Accordion title="Install dependencies">

Reviewer: ```suggestion
1. Install dependencies:
```
This doesn't need to be in an accordion imo

```bash
pip install langchain_core langchain-anthropic langgraph
```

> </Accordion>

Reviewer: ```suggestion
```

> With dependencies installed, you can initialize the LLM.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
2. Initialize the LLM:
```

```python
import os
import getpass

from langchain_anthropic import ChatAnthropic

def _set_env(var: str):
    if not os.environ.get(var):
        os.environ[var] = getpass.getpass(f"{var}: ")

_set_env("ANTHROPIC_API_KEY")

llm = ChatAnthropic(model="claude-3-5-sonnet-latest")
```
:::

:::js
<Accordion title="Install dependencies">
```bash
npm install @langchain/core @langchain/anthropic @langchain/langgraph
```
</Accordion>

With dependencies installed, you can initialize the LLM.

```typescript
import { ChatAnthropic } from "@langchain/anthropic";

process.env.ANTHROPIC_API_KEY = "<your_anthropic_key>";

const llm = new ChatAnthropic({
  model: "claude-3-5-sonnet-latest",
});
```
:::

## LLMs and augmentations

Workflows and agentic systems are based on LLMs and the various augmentations you add to them. [Tool calling](/oss/langchain-tools), [structured outputs](/oss/langchain-structured-output), and [short term memory](/oss/langchain-short-term-memory) are a few options for tailoring LLMs to your needs.

![LLM augmentations](/oss/images/augmented_llm.png)

> ### Code examples

Reviewer: I don't think this heading is needed

> :::python

Reviewer: Should we need to add code samples for the functional API too here since we show both Graph API + Functional API in following sections?

# Get the tool call
msg.tool_calls
```
:::
:::js
```typescript

import { z } from "zod";
import { tool } from "@langchain/core/tools";

// Schema for structured output
const SearchQuery = z.object({
  search_query: z.string().describe("Query that is optimized web search."),
  justification: z
    .string()
    .describe("Why this query is relevant to the user's request."),
});

// Augment the LLM with schema for structured output
const structuredLlm = llm.withStructuredOutput(SearchQuery);

// Invoke the augmented LLM
const output = await structuredLlm.invoke(
  "How does Calcium CT score relate to high cholesterol?"
);

// Define a tool
const multiply = tool(
  async ({ a, b }: { a: number; b: number }) => {
    return a * b;
  },
  {
    name: "multiply",
    description: "Multiply two numbers",
    schema: z.object({
      a: z.number(),
      b: z.number(),
    }),
  }
);

// Augment the LLM with tools
const llmWithTools = llm.bindTools([multiply]);

// Invoke the LLM with input that triggers the tool call
const msg = await llmWithTools.invoke("What is 2 times 3?");

// Get the tool call
console.log(msg.tool_calls);
```
:::

## Prompt chaining

> Prompt chaining is when each LLM call processes the output of the previous call. It's often used for performing well-defined tasks that can be broken down into smaller, verifiable steps. Some examples include translating documents into different languages or verifying generated content for consistency.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Prompt chaining is when each LLM call processes the output of the previous call. It's often used for performing well-defined tasks that can be broken down into smaller, verifiable steps. Some examples include:

- Translating documents into different languages
- Verifying generated content for consistency
```

![Prompt chaining](/oss/images/prompt_chain.png)

### Code examples

:::python
<Tabs>

> <Tab title="Graph API">

Reviewer: This could be changed into a code group, but I don't have a strong preference.

      return originalJoke;
    }
    const improvedJoke = await improveJoke(originalJoke);
    const polishedJoke = await polishJoke(improvedJoke);
    return polishedJoke;
  }
);

const stream = await workflow.stream("cats", {
  streamMode: "updates",
});

for await (const step of stream) {
  console.log(step);
}
```
</Tab>
</Tabs>
:::

## Parallelization

With parallelization, LLMs work simultaneously on a task. This is either done by running multiple independent subtasks at the same time, or running the same task multiple times to check for different outputs. Parallelization is commonly used to:

- Split up subtasks and run them in parallel, which increases speed
- Run tasks multiple times to check for different outputs, which increases confidence

Some examples include:

- Running one subtask that processes a document for keywords, and a second subtask to check for formatting errors
- Running a task multiple times that scores a document for accuracy based on different criteria, like the number of citations, the number of sources used, and the quality of the sources

![parallelization.png](/oss/images/parallelization.png)

### Code examples
:::python

> <Tabs>

Reviewer: Same comment re: code groups vs tabs

// Second LLM call to generate story
const callLlm2 = task("generateStory", async (topic: string) => {
  const msg = await llm.invoke(`Write a story about ${topic}`);
  return msg.content;
});

// Third LLM call to generate poem
const callLlm3 = task("generatePoem", async (topic: string) => {
  const msg = await llm.invoke(`Write a poem about ${topic}`);
  return msg.content;
});

// Combine outputs
const aggregator = task("aggregator", async (params: {
  topic: string;
  joke: string;
  story: string;
  poem: string;
}) => {
  const { topic, joke, story, poem } = params;
  return `Here's a story, joke, and poem about ${topic}!\n\n` +
    `STORY:\n${story}\n\n` +
    `JOKE:\n${joke}\n\n` +
    `POEM:\n${poem}`;
});

// Build workflow
const workflow = entrypoint(
  "parallelWorkflow",
  async (topic: string) => {
    const [joke, story, poem] = await Promise.all([
      callLlm1(topic),
      callLlm2(topic),
      callLlm3(topic),
    ]);

    return aggregator({ topic, joke, story, poem });
  }
);

// Invoke
const stream = await workflow.stream("cats", {
  streamMode: "updates",
});

for await (const step of stream) {
  console.log(step);
}
```
</Tab>
</Tabs>
:::

## Routing

> Routing workflows process inputs and then directs them to context-specific tasks. This allows you to define specialized flows, and should be used for complex tasks. For example, a workflow built to answer product related questions might process the type of question first, and then route the request to specific processes for pricing, refunds, returns, etc.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Routing workflows process inputs and then directs them to context-specific tasks. This allows you to define specialized flows for complex tasks. For example, a workflow built to answer product related questions might process the type of question first, and then route the request to specific processes for pricing, refunds, returns, etc.
```

![routing.png](/oss/images/routing.png)

> ### Code examples

Reviewer: Remove heading

:::python

> <Tabs>

Reviewer: Tabs vs code groups

const llmCallRouter = task("router", async (input: string) => {
  const decision = await router.invoke([
    {
      role: "system",
      content: "Route the input to story, joke, or poem based on the user's request."
    },
    {
      role: "user",
      content: input
    },
  ]);
  return decision.step;
});

// Build workflow
const workflow = entrypoint(
  "routerWorkflow",
  async (input: string) => {
    const nextStep = await llmCallRouter(input);

    let llmCall;
    if (nextStep === "story") {
      llmCall = llmCall1;
    } else if (nextStep === "joke") {
      llmCall = llmCall2;
    } else if (nextStep === "poem") {
      llmCall = llmCall3;
    }

    const finalResult = await llmCall(input);
    return finalResult;
  }
);

// Invoke
const stream = await workflow.stream("Write me a joke about cats", {
  streamMode: "updates",
});

for await (const step of stream) {
  console.log(step);
}
```
</Tab>
</Tabs>
:::

## Orchestrator-worker

In an orchestrator-worker configuration, the orchestrator:

- Breaks down tasks into subtasks
- Delegates subtasks to workers
- Synthesizes worker outputs into a final result

![worker.png](/oss/images/worker.png)

> Orchestrator-worker configurations provide more flexibility and are often used when subtasks can't be predefined the way they can with [parallelization](#parallelization). This is common with workflows that write code or need to update content across multiple files. For example, a workflow that needs to update installation instructions for multiple Python libraries across an unknown number of documents might use this pattern.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Orchestrator-worker workflows provide more flexibility and are often used when subtasks cannot be predefined the way they can with [parallelization](#parallelization). This is common with workflows that write code or need to update content across multiple files. For example, a workflow that needs to update installation instructions for multiple Python libraries across an unknown number of documents might use this pattern.
```

> ### Code examples

Reviewer: Remove heading

:::python

> <Tabs>

Reviewer: Codegroup vs tabs

<Tab title="Graph API">
```python
from typing import Annotated, List
import operator

# Schema for structured output to use in planning
class Section(BaseModel):
    name: str = Field(
        description="Name for this section of the report.",
    )
    description: str = Field(
        description="Brief overview of the main topics and concepts to be covered in this section.",
    )

class Sections(BaseModel):
    sections: List[Section] = Field(
        description="Sections of the report.",
    )

# Augment the LLM with schema for structured output
planner = llm.with_structured_output(Sections)
```

### Creating workers in LangGraph

Orchestrator-worker workflows are common and LangGraph has built-in support for them. The `Send` API lets you dynamically create worker nodes and send them specific inputs. Each worker has its own state, and all worker outputs are written to a shared state key that is accessible to the orchestrator graph. This gives the orchestrator access to all worker output and allows it to synthesize them into a final output. The example below iterates over a list of sections and uses the `Send` API to send a section to each worker.

> ```python

Reviewer: Missing Graph API tag? And python vs js fencing? Or is this only available in python?

    """Synthesize full report from sections"""
    final_report = "\n\n---\n\n".join(completed_sections)
    return final_report

@entrypoint()
def orchestrator_worker(topic: str):
    sections = orchestrator(topic).result()
    section_futures = [llm_call(section) for section in sections]
    final_report = synthesizer(
        [section_fut.result() for section_fut in section_futures]
    ).result()
    return final_report

# Invoke
report = orchestrator_worker.invoke("Create a report on LLM scaling laws")
from IPython.display import Markdown
Markdown(report)
```
</Tab>
</Tabs>
:::

:::js
<Tabs>
<Tab title="Graph API">
```typescript
import { z } from "zod";

// Schema for structured output to use in planning
const sectionSchema = z.object({
  name: z.string().describe("Name for this section of the report."),
  description: z.string().describe(
    "Brief overview of the main topics and concepts to be covered in this section."
  ),
});

const sectionsSchema = z.object({
  sections: z.array(sectionSchema).describe("Sections of the report."),
});

// Augment the LLM with schema for structured output
const planner = llm.withStructuredOutput(sectionsSchema);
```

> ### Creating workers in LangGraph

Reviewer: Oh I see -- it looks like this is duplicated rather than having separate fences. We might want to clean this up

![Prompt chaining](/oss/images/prompt_chain.png)

### Code examples

:::python
<Tabs>
<Tab title="Graph API">
```python
from typing_extensions import TypedDict
from langgraph.graph import StateGraph, START, END
from IPython.display import Image, display

# Graph state
class State(TypedDict):
    topic: str
    joke: str
    improved_joke: str
    final_joke: str

# Nodes
def generate_joke(state: State):
    """First LLM call to generate initial joke"""

    msg = llm.invoke(f"Write a short joke about {state['topic']}")
    return {"joke": msg.content}

def check_punchline(state: State):
    """Gate function to check if the joke has a punchline"""

    # Simple check - does the joke contain "?" or "!"
    if "?" in state["joke"] or "!" in state["joke"]:
        return "Pass"
    return "Fail"

def improve_joke(state: State):
    """Second LLM call to improve the joke"""

    msg = llm.invoke(f"Make this joke funnier by adding wordplay: {state['joke']}")
    return {"improved_joke": msg.content}

def polish_joke(state: State):
    """Third LLM call for final polish"""

> 

Reviewer 2: This extra new line after a doc-string is not consistent with styling of code that we use in any our code bases.

```suggestion
```

I'd suggest removing it if easy to do quickly (or at least not to introduce it into further docs)

(Ideally, we'll be able to auto format this soon with ruff -- just need to set up a bit of tooling)
